welcome to module one lesson two B2B
versus B Toc in this lesson you're going
to learn the difference between
businesses to business advertising and
business to Consumer advertising in
short we call them B2B and b2c
advertising it's important to know the
difference because each type of
advertising has its own nuances and
strategies just like you wouldn't want
to use a chainsaw to cut a watermelon
you want to fully understand the
differences between B Toc and B2B in
order to build a successful advertising
program so before we dive into the
differences the one key thing I want you
to remember is that we're still selling
to people regardless of what you're
selling the laws of psychology still
apply many think that B2B advertising
only has to use logic and information
yet there is so much more room to really
use emotion and entertainment because at
the core we're still talking to a person
so B2B ads don't have to be boring many
of my top performing B2B campaigns were
inspired by p2c ads so okay let's jump
into the eight biggest differences
between B2B and b2c advertising first
the cost of the product B2B marketers
call this the average deal size or
average contract value ACV for short
depending on what's really being sold so
typically B2B products are more
expensive ranging from a th000 to
$250,000 number two the purchase
decision in B2B buying there'll be more
people involved in the purchase of the
product compared to b2c where there's
usually only one person involved number
three the length of the sale so because
because there's more people involved of
purchasing a B2B product or service and
the product is typically more expensive
the length of time to purchase that
product is typically longer as well so
depending on the complexity of what is
being bought sales Cycles can range from
30 days all the way to 36 months so the
higher and more complex the product or
service is the longer the sales cycle
typically is as well this is different
than b Toc because it typically takes me
30 seconds to buy something off a
Instagram ad and I don't know if that's
a good thing or a bad thing number four
the advertising targeting is going to be
smaller so with B2B advertising programs
you're typically going to be targeting
smaller audiences across all of your ad
channels so your audiences will
typically be around 300,000 contacts
with a focus of reaching the right
person and Company whereas with B Toc
advertising your audiences will
typically be much broader because
there's more people that can purchase
your product or service we'll walk
through how B2B marketers build and
identify their buyers to create
impactful audiences for their campaigns
module 2 lesson one number five
advertising distribution strategies may
look different in B2B so since you're
targeting a much smaller audience you
may be dealing with a specific budget
and the ad channels you decide to use
may look different than your B2B
advertising counterpoints it all comes
down to where your audience lives and
breeds digitally and believe me I've
been behind some powerful Facebook ads
for B2B but you may think twice of
running a TV commercial on the Super
Bowl well unless you're Salesforce
number six support multiple sales
funnels in B2B your advertising
campaigns will support and fuel multiple
sales funnels and processes The Big
Three are product Le sales Le and a
hybrid of both we'll unpack this in the
next lesson in this module this is
different than b Toc since their sales
Cycles are typically much simpler number
seven in B2B advertising it's a team
sport B2B advertising requires strategic
alignment across multiple teams
including sales marketing and customer
success departments to support the buyer
journey and close more deals efficiently
we'll break down this in lesson five in
this module so you understand the B2B
All-Star team and how to navigate these
relationships and finally number eight
your advertising will focus on impacting
the entire buyer journey in the sales
funnel the BB sales process is more
complex and there's more buyers involved
so your advertising campaign should be
designed to help impact the entire buyer
Journey not just the first conversion
like B Toc advertising their specific
metrics will unpack together module 3
lesson one to track the success of your
campaigns it'll be juicy so there you
have it the eight major differences
between B2B and b2c advertising there
will be some overlap between each type
of advertising because we're still
selling to people but the mechanics will
change depending on the complexity of
the sales funnel and the price of your
B2B product or service so your action
item for this lesson is to get familiar
with the key differences for your
specific needs the next lesson will dive
more into the B2B sales cycle and how to
maximize the impact across each type
through your advertising if you enjoy
this course and found it valuable please
share it with your work buddies and
leave a testimonial we appreciate any
help spreading the word so we can change
the lives as many marketers as possible
see you in the next lesson